The 5 FSMO roles are:

Schema Master – one per forest
Domain Naming Master – one per forest
Relative ID (RID) Master – one per domain
Primary Domain Controller (PDC) Emulator – one per domain
Infrastructure Master – one per domain
FSMO Roles: What do They do?

Schema Master: The Schema Master role manages the read-write copy of your Active Directory schema.
The AD Schema defines all the attributes – things like employee ID, phone number, email address, and login name – that you can apply to an object in your AD database.

Domain Naming Master: The Domain Naming Master makes sure that you don’t create a second domain in the same forest with the same name as another. 
It is the master of your domain names. Creating new domains isn’t something that happens often, so of all the roles, this one is most likely to live on the same DC 
with another role.

RID Master: The Relative ID Master assigns blocks of Security Identifiers (SID) to different DCs they can use for newly created objects.
Each object in AD has an SID, and the last few digits of the SID are the Relative portion.
In order to keep multiple objects from having the same SID, the RID Master grants each DC the privilege of assigning certain SIDs.

PDC Emulator: The DC with the Primary Domain Controller Emulator role is the authoritative DC in the domain.
The PDC Emulator responds to authentication requests, changes passwords, and manages Group Policy Objects. 
And the PDC Emulator tells everyone else what time it is! It’s good to be the PDC.

Infrastructure Master: The Infrastructure Master role translates Globally Unique Identifiers (GUID), SIDs, and Distinguished Names (DN) between domains. 
If you have multiple domains in your forest, the Infrastructure Master is the Babelfish that lives between them. 
If the Infrastructure Master doesn’t do its job correctly you will see SIDs in place of resolved names in your Access Control Lists (ACL).

FSMO gives you confidence that your domain will be able to perform the primary function of authenticating users and permissions without interruption (with standard caveats,
like the network staying up).

It’s important to monitor AD in order to prevent brute force attacks or privilege elevation attempts – two common attack vectors for data theft. 
Want to see how to do it? We can show you. Get a demo to see how Varonis protects AD from both insider and external threats.
